Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain a crime, drama,
and mystery film called, “The Clovehitch
Killer.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In a small remote town in Clarksville, Kentucky,
a neighborhood is haunted by a string of murders
that happened years ago.
The killer called himself the “Clovehitch
Killer,” after his favorite type of knot.
Even though he stopped killing over ten years
ago, the town still lives in fear and holds
an annual memorial, headed by their community
pastor, Pastor Randy, for the victims’ families
and friends.
In this town lives 16-year-old Tyler Burnside
with his devoutly Christian family.
His dad, Don, a handyman and troop leader
of the Clarksville Rangers, which Tyler is
also a member of, his mother, Cindy, and his
little sister, Susie.
He also has Uncle Rudy, his father’s brother
who lives in an elderly care facility and
whom the family is caring for.
They are loved and known by everyone in town
and are considered to be much-loved members
of the community.
After a morning meeting with the scouts, Don
tells Tyler that work has been slow and Uncle
Rudy’s insurance increased so Tyler won’t
be able to join the leadership camp as planned
to help with his college applications.
Despite feeling disappointed, Tyler knows
they have to put family first.
Later that night, Tyler sneaks into his parents’
bedroom and steals the keys to his dad’s
truck.
He meets up with Amy, a girl he goes to church
with that he likes, and they start making
out in an empty parking lot.
As they make out, Amy finds a picture of a
naked woman in bondage near the passenger
seat.
Tyler denies that the picture is his but Amy
is quickly weirded out by the situation and
tells him to take her home.
The next morning, the family picks up Uncle
Rudy and they attend church together.
During the praise and worship, Tyler can’t
help but feel like he’s getting weird looks,
especially from Amy.
After the service, Billy, one of his churchmates
and also a scout member, approaches him and
talks about the girl lurking in the parking
lot.
He feels creeped out by her and tells him
that she does the same report on the Clovehitch
killings every year.
Tyler accuses him of having a crush on her,
but Billy responds with disgust saying that
the girl allegedly did it with five football
players because her mom left the family to
become a stripper.
Their conversation is cut short by Tyler’s
mom who tells him that they have to go.
As they leave, he gets the same weird look
from the girls again.
At home, Tyler receives a text from Billy
and learns that Amy has told the whole school
about the photo.
Later that day, the family attends the annual
memorial for the Clovehitch victims headed
by Pastor Randy.
After the service, Tyler confronts Amy about
the photo and tells her that it isn’t his.
Amy tells him that she only told one person
and didn’t intend for the whole school to
know.
As Amy leaves, the girl from the church named
Kassi approaches him.
Tyler confronts her for being a weirdo but
she retorts back about the photo, prompting
him to leave.
When his parents leave for the day, Tyler
goes to his father’s shed, feeling curious
about the photos.
He searches through his father’s things
and finds nothing, but at the last minute,
he spots a loose board on the floor.
He opens it up and finds a dusty old box.
Inside the box were countless bondage magazines
and a single polaroid photo of a woman tied
up and gagged.
On the photo, written in pen, was a caption
that says, “Nora - Lucky’s favorite.”
The polaroid disturbs Tyler to the core and
he stashes it back into the box.
Don gets back from the community center and
goes to his shed, only to find that the lock
has been touched.
Later that night, Tyler lays in bed awake,
thinking about the disturbing picture he’s
found in his father’s possession.
Unable to sleep, he goes to the living room
and looks up the name he found on the polaroid.
It turns out that Nora Devlin was one of the
Clovehitch Killer’s victims.
A light turns on and his mother interrupts
his research and sends him back to bed.
The next morning, his mother sends him to
his father to have the “talk,” thinking
that her son has been up all night searching
for restricted photos.
At the shed, Don tells Tyler that he knows
that he took his truck last night.
He then tells his son that he understands
the conflicting feelings between being a devoted
Christian and being a teenager undergoing
puberty.
He reassures him that it’s normal to have
these thoughts as long as you don’t act
on them.
Tyler leaves the awkward talk, feeling more
confused than before about his father.
Trying to clear up his name, Tyler heads over
to Billy and tells him that the photo isn’t
his.
Billy doesn’t listen to him and tells him
he should start praying for his sins.
Desperate for help, Tyler goes back to the
church and sees Kassi again, and follows her
into the woods.
He asks her for her help in investigating
the Clovehitch killings.
Kassi is hesitant at first but she eventually
tells him to meet up with her at 3 at her
given address and to bring cookies.
Tyler rides his bike the next day to the address
Kassi gave her.
He gives the cookies to her grandmother who
answers the door and heads up to Kassi’s
room.
She gives him a box full of copies of evidence
from a case and a book that talked about the
killings.
It turns out that her grandmother used to
work on the case and wrote a book about it.
She tells him that every serial killer has
a signature style like a fingerprint, including
the Clovehitch Killer.
The killer had the same entry points, the
same elaborate ropes on the bodies, and a
clove hitch knot tied to every victim’s
house.
Kassi doesn’t believe that the killer has
stopped and she’s working to catch him on
his weakness.
In the evening during family time, Tyler lies
to his family and tells them that he’ll
be spending his afternoons volunteering as
a tutor, but in truth, he’ll be working
with Kassi on investigating the Clovehitch
killings.
Tyler spends the next afternoon sifting through
evidence with Kassi in her room.
Unbeknownst to him, Don has followed his son
and is watching his every move.
When Tyler gets back home, Don tells him that
he knows he hasn’t been tutoring but sneaking
out to meet his girlfriend.
He then tells him that he shouldn’t lie
to his mother and instead invite the girl
tomorrow for dinner.
The next day, Tyler invites Kassi over for
dinner and asks her to pretend to be his girlfriend
and not mention any of the investigations
they’re doing.
Later that night, Kassi joins the Burnsides
for dinner.
After an awkward start, Kassi hits it off
immediately with Tyler’s parents.
On the way home, Kassi jokingly asks Tyler
if he thinks his dad is the Clovenhitch Killer.
He looks horrified at the question and tells
her about the magazines, the shed, and the
polaroid.
She reassures him that it’s normal for adults
to have kinks and there’s no way that his
dad could be the killer.
When Tyler gets home, he joins his family
in washing the dishes.
He feels a deep pit in his stomach as he looks
at his seemingly normal family.
Despite Kassi’s reassurances, he remains
disturbed at what he has just unearthed.
At midnight, he hears knocking coming from
his window.
It’s Kassi.
She’s come to tell him that the fifth victim
received a note a week before she was murdered.
He takes her to the shed and opens the loose
floorboard, but the box is already gone.
She reaches her hand inside and takes out
a piece of paper.
The two teenagers look shocked as they unfold
a blueprint for what looked like a dungeon
of horrors.
Kassi takes a picture and leaves while Tyler
goes to one of their vents.
His brain is trying to convince him that this
is all a big misunderstanding but his gut
is telling him otherwise.
He goes into the crawlspace and finds a false
wooden cover.
He pushes the cover away and squeezes himself
into a small makeshift den.
As he turns on the light, he sees a small
room with an incomplete toilet and shower.
On the side is a box full of bondage magazines,
grotesque sketches, and a small tin container.
Tyler opens the container slowly and takes
out a bunch of driver’s licenses tied together.
With trembling hands, he sifts through the
licenses and sees Nora Devlin.
The worst has been confirmed.
His father, Don, is the Clovehitch Killer.
When morning comes, Tyler lays awake on his
bed.
His father comes in and insists that they
go camping today.
Tyler is reluctant to go, confused about his
feelings for his father, but he eventually
agrees.
In the woods, they bring their rifles, hoping
to practice for Tyler’s rifle merit badge.
As they take a break, Don cleans out his rifle
and asks Tyler if he has told anyone.
Tyler tries to deny it at first but he confronts
him and lets him know that he’s aware that
Tyler has been to his shed and his crawl space.
He calls him out for his son’s lack of privacy
and tells him that what he found in the box
wasn’t his.
Don tells his son that the box belonged to
his Uncle Rudy.
When they were younger, both of them, Don
and Rudy, had an interest in these kinds of
photos.
When they got older, Don stopped but Rudy
got worse to the point where they had to ask
him to turn himself in.
That’s when his Uncle Rudy tried to kill
himself by crashing his car.
Tyler is shocked to learn this as he was initially
told that his uncle got into a car crash resulting
in his condition.
He asks his father why he has kept the photos
all this time.
Don defends himself and tells him that he
had intended to burn it or turn it into the
police, but there was never a right time.
Eventually, he just stopped trying in order
to save his family from hurt and scandal.
Don then apologizes to his son.
Tyler tells his father that he either has
to turn in the evidence or destroy it once
and for all.
When they get home, Don brings out all the
magazines, photos, and even the licenses,
and burns them all.
Tyler watches, thinking to himself if this
is really the right thing to do.
The next day, Tyler attends a class tying
knots with his father who continues to pretend
as if nothing has happened.
Tyler goes out of class to talk to Kassi who’s
angry at him for ditching him.
She’s finally figured out that the blueprint
was for the Burnsides’ house and she’s
actually gone into their crawl space.
He insists that it’s not him and that his
father has explained everything.
Kassi doesn’t believe him and takes out
the files from the case.
Tyler makes her drop the files and then helps
her pick up the papers.
Billy goes out into the hallway and calls
out Kassi for being deranged.
Billy curses him and Tyler immediately lunges
at him on her defense.
A fight erupts and Tyler is sent to Pastor
Randy who reprimands him for his behavior.
When Tyler gets home, he receives an apology
note from Kassi on his window.
The next day, Tyler boards the bus for his
leadership program.
His father managed to find a way to fund his
retreat.
Tyler bids his family goodbye and climbs up
the bus with an uneasy heart.
Meanwhile, with his son away, Don suggests
to his wife that she and Susie should go visit
her grandmother.
Cindy agrees to take a week or two off and
sets up the plan with her husband.
Later that night, the couple makes love but
their moment is cut short when Don starts
feeling unwell.
He reassures his wife that it’s nothing
serious and he’s just getting old and they
share an intimate embrace.
When morning comes, Don bids Cindy and Susie
goodbye.
He is finally alone.
Now, he can go and set out what he really
intended to do.
He goes about his work, hangs out with the
locals, and goes shopping.
At the grocery, he meets a nice woman at the
frozen section.
He keeps an eye on her at the counter and
stalks her all the way to her home.
When he gets home, he goes up to the attic
to take out his old equipment, even his old
polaroid camera.
He sets up the camera in the living room and
dresses as a woman in bondage with a mask
and wig on his head.
He listens to music as he takes several pictures
of himself.
He goes back into the bedroom and looks at
the dresses laid on the bed.
Suddenly, the doorbell rings.
Don changes his clothes and meets Kassi in
the hallway.
She’s looking for Tyler and he tells her
that he’s away on his leadership retreat.
He then takes the camera and asks her if she
wants a picture.
After he takes her picture, Kassi’s phone
rings.
It’s her father.
She excuses herself and bids him goodbye.
When Kassi leaves, Don inspects the photos
he’s taken and slams them on the bed.
He throws a tantrum on the bed and screams
in frustration.
He was supposed to savor these killings and
enjoy them, but now he couldn’t.
Everything is spiraling out of control and
he hates being out of control.
Something must be done with his son, but now
is not the time to think about it.
When he comes back from his program, he will
deal with him then, but this time is for him
only.
He regains his composure and drives to the
woman’s house.
In her backyard, he inspects the vent going
into her basement and ties a clove hitch knot
onto one of her pipes.
Later on, Don attends church service with
his brother and meets up with the scouts.
When he gets home, he lays out all the equipment
he needs for his killing and calls his wife
to check up on her.
The woman lays on her living room couch, unaware
of the horror that’s about to happen to
her.
Don breaks in through the open basement window
and quietly makes his way up to the living
room.
He hovers over the sleeping woman, savoring
the moments before he makes his kill, and
then turns off the television.
The woman wakes up and he immediately points
a gun at her neck and threatens to shoot her
if she screams.
He tells the woman that he just robbed a bank
and he needs the keys to her car.
He grabs her purse and takes out her keys
and driver’s license.
The woman is trembling in terror as she examines
the man who’s about to end her life.
Don takes a picture of her and adds it to
his collection.
He threatens her by saying that if she tells
the cops, he has her picture and he’ll send
out his friends for him.
He orders her to grab his bag and follow him
to her bedroom so that he can tie her up.
She hesitates but he pushes her against the
wall and sticks the gun to her head.
She grabs the bag and walks to her bedroom
crying.
He orders her to tie herself as he places
the gun on the drawers.
He ties the woman himself and she cries in
pain at how tight the ropes are.
He talks to her in his persona, Lucky, and
strangles her with pantyhose, pinning her
down to the bed.
After a while, Don drags a chair into the
room and looks at the woman hog-tied on the
floor.
He takes out her underwear and uses it to
tie a plastic bag around her head.
He then takes out his camera, sits on his
chair, and takes a picture.
Out in the hallway, his son, Tyler, comes
in with a rifle aimed at him.
It turns out Tyler never went to the leadership
program after all.
After he receives the apology note from Kassi,
he meets up with her at Nora Devlin’s house.
He tells her that he wants to hang out with
her but this Clovehitch stuff has got to stop.
She invites him to come inside the house and
then kisses him.
He follows her into the abandoned home and
they stay put in the living room.
Tyler tries to kiss her again but Kassi is
insistent on continuing the investigation.
She tells him that the killer entered through
the basement and killed Nora right there on
the floor.
Tyler walks out, unable to take any more of
this, but Kassi tells him that she just wants
to know what happened.
He finally gives in and tells her what his
father had told him, that Uncle Rudy is the
Clovehitch Killer, but he tried to kill himself
and then he stopped.
Kassi then tells him that she actually found
something when she went into their crawlspace.
She found rope fibers identical to the ones
pointed out in the evidence.
Tyler accuses her of being obsessive but she
finally reveals that the reason why she’s
so bent on solving this, is because she believes
that her mother was one of the Clovehitch
Killer’s unknown victims.
Her father told her that her mother abandoned
them, but she remembers being in the room
when the killer murdered her mother.
It was years later when she realized that
her mother’s death was similar to the Clovehitch
Killer’s victims, but no one would listen
to her or believe her.
Tyler asks her what her name was and Kassi
says that it’s Crystal.
He then tells her that he saw a license belonging
to a Crystal Harper in his father’s possession.
There were 13 licenses that he found and there
are only 10 known victims of the killer, so
Kassi’s mother was definitely one of them,
confirming Kassi’s fears.
He tells her that they already burned the
evidence to save the family, but Kassi confronts
him one more time, challenging him that if
he has any doubt in his heart at all about
his father, then he should help her solve
this case once and for all.
This convinces Tyler and together, they form
a plan.
When he leaves for his leadership program,
he actually gets off the bus and heads over
to Kassi’s house.
They begin piecing the pieces of the case
together.
Don is a handyman so this must explain why
the killer can easily break into the homes.
They follow Don on his jobs and even stalks
him all the way to the supermarket.
He sees him following the woman and even notices
his lingering stare.
They ride their bikes home and Tyler sneaks
into the house.
While Don is distracted, he goes to his parent’s
bedroom and installs a G.P.S. tracker on his
phone.
Suddenly, his dad comes into the room and
Tyler hides behind the bed.
He watches in shock as he sees his father
wearing women’s clothing.
He sends a message to Kassi to help him and
she immediately comes to his rescue by ringing
the doorbell.
He then bails Kassi out by calling her and
pretending to be her father.
Back at her place, they keep their eye on
the tracker and his dad’s whereabouts.
Kassi grows tired of waiting and they track
Don back to the woman’s house.
Tyler insists that his dad is probably just
working on a job, but she insists on going
further.
He continues to watch as his father appears
and drives away.
When he joins Kassi in the backyard, she tells
him about her horrifying discovery.
Kassi had seen Don tie a clove hitch knot
into the pipe.
Don is truly the killer and there is no doubt
now.
They peek into the window and confirm that
the woman from the supermarket lived here.
Later that night and the next day, Don’s
tracker didn’t move.
The two teenagers return to Tyler’s house
and find that Don had left his phone on the
bed.
Tyler takes out his father’s rifle and they
ride back to the woman’s house where they
find Don’s car on the street.
They break through the same basement window
and quietly explore the house.
With his rifle out, Tyler and Kassi sneak
behind a counter wall as Don walks in and
takes one of the dining chairs.
Tyler walks to the bedroom, weapon in tow,
and finally catches his dad in the act.
Don reprimands him and tells him that he shouldn’t
be pointing a weapon unless he intends to
use it.
As Tyler demands his father turn himself in,
he orders Kassi to free the woman.
Don then tries to turn the situation around
and tells him that Kassi is manipulating him.
He would never hurt anyone.
He tells him that he and the woman are having
an affair and that they were just being kinky.
Kassi calls Don a liar and runs for the gun
but he grabs her and slams her across the
wall.
He then tells his son that he’s just concerned
that Kassi is unfit to handle a gun.
He takes out the bullets from the revolver
and coaxes Tyler to hand him the gun.
Tyler, feeling completely conflicted between
his father and this killer, reluctantly hands
the gun to Don.
Don then points the rifle at Tyler and pulls
the trigger, but the gun is empty.
Tyler is horrified at the realization that
his own father had just tried to shoot him
without second thoughts.
He lunges at him, trying to pin him on the
bed, but Don soon gains the upper hand.
He pins his son on the floor and strangles
him with one hand.
Tyler struggles as he kicks and scratches
at his shoulders.
Suddenly, Kassi comes from behind and hits
Don’s head with a lamp.
Don collapses on the floor and she gives him
another hit to the head.
As she tries to call the police, Tyler stops
her and shakes his head.
Weeks later, Don Burnside is still missing.
Cindy, Tyler’s mother, is on the verge of
a mental breakdown but has managed to keep
it together for her children, unaware of what
her husband was doing and what her eldest
had done.
When they go to the community center, Pastor
Randy is waiting for them and tells Cindy
the grave news.
They have found Don’s body.
Later that day, Tyler meets up with Kassi
again.
They agree to do nothing for they know the
police will never be able to connect it with
the Clovehitch Killer because the woman never
saw his face.
She reminds him that this is what he wanted
to happen.
When Tyler gets home, his mother slips into
his bedroom and talks to him.
She tells him that the police had found Don’s
body and wanted to talk to him, but she told
them no.
She then tells Tyler that the police didn’t
think it was an accident, but rather a suicide
attempt.
His mother breaks down and he comforts her.
After his father’s funeral, Tyler is awarded
as a troop leader and reads a speech in honor
of his father.
He looks out to the crowd, spouting lies for
only he and Kassi truly knew what a horrible
person Don was and what truly happened to
him that night.
He knows how he and Kassi dragged Don into
the woods, set up the place as if he was camping,
and laid out his gun as if he was cleaning
it.
The police and the people might believe that
Don Burnside accidentally killed himself while
cleaning his gun, but Tyler knows that it
was his own finger that pulled the trigger.
And this is a secret that he will take with
him to his grave and do what his father had
failed to do, protect this family.